BEIJING — Officially, Tuesday is an ordinary day here. Ordinary or not,
however, the police will be on high alert, and some villages across Tibetan
areas of western China will be under virtual military lockdown. For it was 50
years ago on Tuesday that 300,000 Tibetans surrounded the Dalai Lama’s palace
in Lhasa, the start of a failed uprising against Chinese rule that resonates
to this day.
Skip to next paragraph
Related
China Tightens Security in Tibet (March 10, 2009)
Seeking Justice, Chinese Land in Secret Jails (March 9, 2009)
China Harassed U.S. Ship, the Pentagon Says (March 10, 2009)
Times Topics: China
Enlarge This Image
Ng Han Guan/Associated Press

Chinese paramilitary police patrolled a street in southwestern Sichuan
province on Monday. Security forces have been placed on high alert in many
areas.

The Chinese place enormous emphasis on anniversaries and dates, one more
reason that 2009 is shaping up as a very stressful year for the nation’s
rulers. Besides navigating an economic crisis that has rendered millions
jobless, the government must steer the country through a sheaf of symbolic
dates, some auspicious, some portentous, all — the leaders seem to think,
anyway — potential triggers for public unrest.

The Dalai Lama on Tuesday seized on the anniversary, accusing China, in
transcripts of a speech, of a “brutal crackdown” and warning that Tibetan
culture and identity are “nearing extinction.”

While many political analysts here may call the leadership’s concerns about
unrest overblown, history suggests that, perhaps, the leaders could have a
point.

This year commemorates not only the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan revolt.
June brings the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the 1989 pro-democracy
demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, protests that remain the most visible
challenge to Communist rule. April is the 10th anniversary of major protests
by the Falun Gong religious sect, which led to thousands of arrests and, in
July of that year, a government ban on the group.

May heralds the 90th anniversary of the May 4 movement, a 1919 student-led
protest against imperial rule that is both a touchstone of Chinese nationalism
and historic proof that people can challenge their rulers.

Finally, Oct. 1 is the 60th anniversary of the creation of the People’s
Republic of China. The government plans a major celebration and will be on the
lookout for anyone who seeks to spoil it.

The government is often alert for spoilers, of course, as it was for months
during the security clampdown surrounding the Beijing Olympics last summer.
But this year’s concerns seem especially stark. In January, an authoritative
state magazine, Outlook, issued an unusually blunt warning of the likelihood
of unrest, saying that “we are entering a peak period for mass incidents.”

On Monday, state media confirmed that security forces had increased patrols in
central Tibet. It was the first official acknowledgment that police and
paramilitary forces had flooded areas where ethnic Tibetans live, creating an
unofficial state of martial law. Foreigners have been barred from many areas.
The ruling Communist Party has established a top-level committee to ensure
social stability. One high-level official in the state media says the
committee now has branches at every level of government and is rumored to be
led by Xi Jinping, China’s vice president and the heir-apparent to President
Hu Jintao.

News reports say the committee’s nickname is 6521 — a reference to the threats
to public order supposedly posed by this year’s 60th, 50th, 20th and 10th
anniversaries of major events.

To outsiders, this fixation on dates may seem odd, but it has both cultural
and political explanations. Numerology and the calendar have ancient and
honored roles in China, Elizabeth Perry, a China scholar and professor of
government at Harvard, said in an e-mail interview. Even today, while
Americans identify most major events by their locations (the Boston tea party,
the Alamo, Gettysburg, Oklahoma City), the Chinese tend to rely on dates.

The May 4 movement, which mixed anti-imperialism with a call for democracy and
human rights, is best known to most Chinese as 5/4. The 1989 Tiananmen Square
protests and crackdown are universally rendered as the shorthand 6/4.

Ideology also weighs heavily on the penchant for anniversaries, for the
Chinese brand of government propaganda is copied from the Soviet Union’s
handbook, which whipped even insignificant holidays into excuses to glorify
state power.

While the government more or less ignores the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan
uprising, its rubber-stamp Tibetan Parliament this year declared March 28 to
be Serfs Emancipation Day, a celebration of Tibet’s liberation from the Dalai
Lama’s control.

In that and other respects, Professor Perry wrote, the government’s elevation
of anniversaries into politically freighted events runs the risk of
backfiring. The bigger the celebration, or the more galling to dissidents, the
greater the likelihood of a reaction.

She said: “I would not discount the degree to which such anniversaries (like
portents of a change in the mandate of heavens, such as earthquakes, floods
and large-scale riots or rebellion) are also regarded quite seriously by the
citizenry at large. There is ample precedent in the republican as well as
communist periods for Chinese protesters to turn the commemoration of
political anniversaries into demands for political change.”

The most recent precedent is Tibet itself, where tensions last year over the
49th anniversary of the 1959 uprising boiled over into violence. But there are
many others; the May 4 movement, which was led by student boycotts in Shanghai
and Beijing, has been the inspiration for a number of other student protests
in modern China, including the pro-democracy protests of 1989.

This year’s security precautions are so extensive that some analysts discount
the chance of any widespread unrest. And the lot of some Chinese has improved
so markedly in the last 20 years, especially in cities, that the forces that
feed protest may be more subdued now, Yuan Weishi, a professor of philosophy
at Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou, said in a telephone interview.

After 30 years of Chinese modernization, with its “traumatic, drastic change
every day,” he said, average Chinese “don’t want to destroy the social
stability they are enjoying now.”

But like some other analysts, he would never say “never.” “People like to take
the opportunity of anniversaries to have their voices heard by the government,
to promote reforms in the direction that people want,” he said. “It’s possible
a small number of people might want to take radical actions this year. I think
that’s why the government is paying attention to this.”

