By MICHAEL WINES
Published: March 10, 2009
Devil??translation








Monday, March 9, the National People's Congress Chairman Wu Bangguo of the Standing Committee listened to a dressed in traditional Mongolian costumes the representatives of ethnic minorities.







Reason, in Beijing Tuesday, is unusual in this day. But regardless of unusual or not, the police are on high alert, the Tibetan areas of western China and some villages are in a virtual military alert level to guard against. Fifty years ago Tuesday, in Lhasa, 300,000 Tibetans surrounded that launched a failed anti-Chinese riots in the rule of the Dalai Lama's palace. All this has an impact today.






Monday, southwest China's Sichuan Province has at armed police patrolling the streets in many areas, security forces are on high alert status.








China made a lot of efforts on the anniversary, there is a reason for this is that the leaders of the country concerned, in 2009 has become a very stress one. Apart from the economic crisis cause the millions of unemployed, the government must lead the entire country during the Spend some sensitive, some are good, some are unknown, all of which could trigger social unrest. In any case, the leaders looked at the meditation.




Tuesday, the Dalai Lama to mark the anniversary of the use of time, in a Speech Translation of the text, the allegations of Chinese government's "repressive brute force" and called for Tibetan culture and Tibetan identity is "doomed." At the same time, many politicians, the leaders may also find relevant questions Talk about calm turbulent, history shows that leaders are probably right.







54 May is the 90 anniversary of the sport. In 1919, a student-led anti-imperialist domination of the sport has become the nation's, the touchstone of historical meaning, to show the world the Chinese people have the ability to issue a challenge to the rulers.






Finally, the October 1 Chinese are the sixtieth anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic. The Chinese government planned a grand celebration, and to strengthen the warning, so that can take advantage of inorganic saboteurs attempt.






Of course, the Chinese government always maintains the same level of spoilers, this summer, around the Olympic Games in Beijing on security control once several months. But it seems that this year's event is particularly important. In January, the authority of the official magazine "Outlook" issued an unusual evade without the possibility of social unrest on the warning, which referred to "Today, we are in troubled times."






Monday, official media confirmed the news, Tibet, the central region of the security forces increased patrols. This is the first official recognition of the police and armed police forces were dispatched to a large number of Tibetans living areas, the formation of an informal status of military control. Foreigners have been barred from entering these areas. The ruling Communist Party set up a high-level committee to ensure social stability. The official media of a high-level officials said the committee has been extended to all levels of government, was rumored that the committee are from the Chinese Vice-President Hu Jintao's successor is the direct leadership of Xi.






News reports said that the Commission's code is 6521, which may pose a threat to society and the major anniversary of the 60th anniversary, 50th anniversary, 20th anniversary, 10th anniversary.








External people, the anniversary of the die may be staring at these very strange, that everything has a cultural and political interpretation. Mail in a visit, Harvard University political science professor - Chinese scholars rationale Elizabeth (Elizabeth Perry) spoke of augury and calendar in China, with its ancient traditions, also played a very important role. Even today, when the American virtue of the location of the event in mind (such as: Boston Tea Party, Chuan Biancheng heroes, Gettysburg Battle, Oklahoma), while the Chinese tend to rely on time to remember the event .






An anti-imperialism, called for democracy and human rights movement was 54 by the majority of Chinese people to remember is 54.





The former Soviet Union, the manual will be some days does not matter as the anniversary of the forces to beautify the country. At that time, the Chinese translation and the introduction of such a manual, so the meaning of today's Chinese people pay more attention to patterns in the annual Memory.







When the Government more or less ignored the fiftieth anniversary of the Tibetan rebellion, this is not approved by the review of the Tibetan Autonomous Region will be March 28 as the (Tibetan) Liberation Day, in order to shake off the Tibetan people to celebrate the Dalai Lama control access to the liberation of Tibet. Professor Elizabeth mentioned that in many respects, the Government has a high profile political events commemorate the past is likely to backfire. To celebrate the more solemn, the more different voices of anger, the greater will be possible in this reaction.






She said: "I'm sure some people are required anniversary solemn and grand treatment, such as: some give a harbinger of Heaven, such as earthquakes, floods, large-scale rebellion. At times the Communist Party there are a lot of such a precedent, China Some rebels put politics on the anniversary transformed into demands for political change. "





A recent lesson is that the Tibetan rebellion in 1959 to celebrate the anniversary of Pingding been turned into a riot. But there are also many other situations, for example: in 1919, students from Shanghai and Beijing-led boycott (imperialism) of the 54 sports being used to incite a small number of students to boycott today's China, for example, the student movement in 1989.





Security alert for this year so close to such an extent that some politicians believe that large-scale social unrest is unlikely. In a telephone interview, Guangzhou Sun Yat-sen University Department of Philosophy, Professor Yuan Weishi mentioned that in the past two decades, China has achieved remarkable improve, especially in the city, the military forces to protest against the more weakened.





He said, after three decades of modernization, Chinese happen every day in the earth-shaking changes, the majority of Chinese people are very happy in this moment of stability, do not want to go to undermine the social stability and harmony.




However, and other politicians like him will never say "never." He said: "People want to use to mark the anniversary of the opportunity to allow the Government to listen to their ideas, thereby encouraging people to look forward towards the reform of the direction. This small number of people may take some radical approach, I think this Government is the reason why so much emphasis on the bar! "

